
Morgan Stanely raises the target price of the electric car manufacturer's shares from $250 to $400, leading rises in the US.
Tesla has been the stock of the day on Wall Street today. The electric car manufacturer has soared 10.09% to 273.58 dollars, and has led the rises in the S&P 500, which is up 0.67%. This rise brings to 122% the revaluation of the company's shares since January.
These gains on the trading floor come after Morgan Stanley raised its price target for Elon Musk's company's shares from $250 to $400. No analyst who follows the group gives it such a high potential.
The U.S. bank attributes this improvement to the great advantages that artificial intelligence (AI) can bring to Tesla's business. Especially when it comes to raising its margins thanks to cost reduction, a key aspect for the company's accounts and one that analysts are always very attentive to each quarter.
The company is embarking from 2021 on what it has dubbed 'project Dojo', a supercomputer that uses machine learning - a branch of AI - to process millions of videos and images and improve the autonomous driving system of the group's cars. Tesla's roadmap is to invest $1 billion by the end of 2024 in this computer, which will use chips designed by the group and not by other industry giants, such as Nvidia.
According to Morgan Stanely, the 'Dojo project' "could meet all the requirements" to be "a moonshot -moonshot- pausible and scalable" that has not yet been "discounted by the market".
"Dojo specializes in processing visual data and is a custom tool for solving autonomous operations, whether for vehicles, factories or humanoid robots. This adds Tesla to a list of companies - Meta, Amazon and Microsoft - that have also developed their own proprietary computing solutions" notes the report.
However, from the American firm they also point out that "testing and remarkable execution" will be needed to prove that Dojo is a project that will serve Tesla to have an Artificial Intelligence system on a par with those offered by Nvidia.