A few hours ago we told you about Porsche's surprise, as the manufacturer has announced that it will integrate Google services to its fleet of vehicles so that we can use Google Maps among other tools. And now it's Tesla's turn, which has always been characterized by a tight control of the apps compatible with its electric vehicles.
Well, as reported by ADSLZone, it seems that the company founded by Elon Musk has decided to take the plunge and start using third-party apps in their Tesla cars. If you are the owner of one of its electric vehicles, you will know that you can already install third-party apps, but not officially.
This translates into a lack of support from the manufacturer, as well as potential problems, so not all Tesla owners wanted to take the gamble. Luckily, this is about to change.
Tesla will allow third-party apps to be installed on its fleet of vehicles.
 By the looks of it, with the arrival of Fleet everything has changed. We're talking about an API that allows third-party developers to integrate their tools into Tesla's range of electric cars. Until now this was not possible, but now it is going to be a reality.
a logical move and one that, to be honest, has been a long time coming. Tesla's official apps are comprehensive, but limited. And being able to install third-party apps will help us squeeze more out of everything Tesla cars have to offer.
It should be noted that the work now falls to developers, who have the task of adapting their apps for the Tesla ecosystem. In addition, and how could it be otherwise, Tesla has already made it clear that the company will have a tight control of the apps available in its store to avoid malware and other common problems.
In addition, they say that models like the Tesla Model X !00D will be among the first to receive these new apps to increase their versatility. For example, there are tools that help you better check the battery percentage, turn on the air conditioning remotely, something vital in the hottest days and much more.
Of course, for the moment we must be patient, as Tesla has not established any kind of deadline. So, the only thing we can do is wait for the first third-party apps to start landing in the Tesla ecosystem. But it is clear that this is a logical move, and great news for Tesla owners or future Tesla owners.